
Q. What is a Java Stream? Give an example of how you would use a Java Stream. 
	Streams provide a more concise and readable way of writing code for processing collections of data. 
	They allow developers to write code in a declarative style that expresses what should be done with the data rather than how it should be done. 
	Let's say we have a list of integers and we want to find the sum of all the even numbers in the list.

	This is how the becomes concise and readable.
	int sum = ListOfNumbers.stream()
                .filter(num -> num % 2 == 0)
                .mapToInt(Integer::intValue)
                .sum();

	filter operation to select only the even numbers, mapToInt to convert them to primitive int values, 
	and sum to add them up. This code reads more like a sentence, expressing what we want to do with the 
	data rather than how we want to do it.

	Streams are evaluated lazily, meaning that they only process the data when necessary. 
	This can lead to significant performance improvements, as not all data needs to be processed at once.

	Let's say we have a very large collection of numbers, and we want to find the first number that is both greater than 100 and even. 
	If we want to implement this using stream, we will mainly use filter() and findFirst() operation.

	The filter operation only processes each number one at a time, and the findFirst operation stops processing as soon as it finds a matching number. 
	This means that if the first number in the list matches the criteria, the rest of the list is never processed. 

	A stream is a sequence of elements that can be processed in parallel or sequentially.

	Streams provide a declarative and functional approach to data processing, where operations are expressed as a series of transformations on the data.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             It can be processed in parallel, which means that the data is divided into multiple chunks and processed concurrently on multiple threads.

	Filtering data: Streams can be used to filter data from a collection based on certain conditions. 
			For example, you can use the filter operation to get all the elements from a collection that meet a certain criteria.

	Sorting data: Streams can be used to sort data in a collection based on certain criteria. 
			For example, you can use the sorted operation to sort a list of integers in ascending or descending order.

	New stream for each operation:Stream can be used if we want new processed data every time rather than changing the original data.



Q. What is the difference between a terminal and intermediate operation in Java Streams? Give an example of each.
	Intermediate operations are operations that transform a stream into another stream. 
		They are lazy, meaning that they don't produce any result until a terminal operation is called. 
		
	Intermediate operations include filter(), map(), sorted(), distinct(), and many others.
	
	Terminal operations are operations that produce a result or a side effect. 
		They trigger the processing of intermediate operations and the production of a result or a side effect. 
		
	Terminal operations include collect(), forEach(), count(), reduce(), and many others.

	Return Type: Intermediate operations return another stream, which allows for method chaining to further process the data. 
				Terminal operations, however, return a non-stream result or perform a side effect, 
				such as printing to the console or modifying a data source.
				
	Multiple Operations: Multiple intermediate operations can be chained together to form a pipeline of operations that are 
				executed when a terminal operation is called. However, once a terminal operation is called, the stream 
				cannot be used again, and a new stream must be created to perform further operations.
				
	Ordering: Intermediate operations can be ordered, meaning that the order in which they are called affects the final result. 
			For example, calling filter() before map() produces a different result than calling map() before filter(). 
			Terminal operations, however, do not depend on the order of intermediate operations.


Q. How can you achieve parallelism using Java Streams? What are the potential benefits and drawbacks of doing so? 
	Data Processing: When processing large amounts of data, parallelism can be used to split up the processing across 
			multiple threads, resulting in faster execution times. For example, when processing a large dataset of 
			images or videos, parallelism can be used to apply image processing or video analysis algorithms to 
			each image or frame in parallel.
			
	Search and Filtering: Parallelism can be beneficial when searching or filtering a large dataset for specific items. 
			For example, when searching a large dataset of customer transactions for fraudulent activity, parallelism 
			can be used to search for patterns in the data across multiple threads.

	In Java Streams, parallelism can be achieved using the parallelStream() method. 
	
	This method is used to convert a sequential stream into a parallel stream, allowing the processing to 
		be split up across multiple threads.
		
	Parallelism in Java Streams offers several benefits, including faster processing of large datasets, increased 
		efficiency, and simplified code. By utilizing multiple threads, parallelism can split up workloads and make 
		more efficient use of available computing resources. 
		
	However, parallelism also introduces additional complexity, such as the need to handle thread synchronization 
		and ensure that operations are executed in the correct order. This can lead to increased complexity and 
		performance overhead, and parallelism can consume significant computing resources, especially when processing large datasets.

	Let’s say, we want to find the sum of 10 numbers stored in the List parallelly.
	
		numbersList.parallelStream().reduce(0, (a, b) -> a + b);
		
	To achieve parallelism, we use the parallelStream() method instead of stream(), which converts the sequential stream into a 
		parallel stream, reduce() method to calculate the sum of the numbers in the list.
		
	Machine learning applications that need to process large datasets or perform complex operations can benefit from parallelism 
		in Java Streams to speed up training and improve performance.
		
	Image and video processing tasks, such as filtering or resizing images or videos, can be computationally intensive and benefit 
	from parallelism in Java Streams to speed up processing times.



Q. Can you explain how to utilize the Stream API to perform operations on a collection?
	Create a collection: First, create a collection such as a List, Set, or Map that contains the data you want to process. 
		It is necessary because the Stream API operates on collections. 
		
	If we want to perform filtering on the collection to find only even numbers then first, we need to create a collection for that.
		e.g. List<Integer> numbers = Arrays.asList(1, 2, 3, 4, 5);
		
	Create a stream: Once we have a collection containing the data to process, we can create a stream from it using the stream() 
		(for normal operations) or parallelStream() (for parallel operations) method. 
		This will allow you to perform operations on the collection efficiently using the Stream API. 
		
	We can create a stream from this List using the stream() method.
			Stream<Integer> numberStream = numbers.stream();
		
	Chain intermediate operations: With a stream, you can chain multiple intermediate operations together to transform, 
						filter, or sort the data. Some common intermediate operations include map(), filter(), sorted(), and distinct(). 
						These operations return a new stream each time they are called.
						
	Now, we can perform various operations on this stream. For example, we can filter out even numbers using the filter() method.
			Stream<Integer> evenNumberStream = numberStream.filter(n -> n % 2 == 0);
			
	Apply a terminal operation: After you have performed all the necessary intermediate operations, you can apply a terminal 
				operation to the stream to produce a final result. Examples of terminal operations 
				include forEach(), reduce(), collect(), and toArray().
				
	Finally, we can collect the results of our operations using the collect() method.
			List<Integer> evenNumbersList = evenStream.collect(Collectors.toList());


	Object creation: Stream operations such as map() or filter() can create a large number of new objects, which can lead to 
			excessive memory usage and slow down processing. It is important to be aware of the object creation 
			overhead and choose the right approach based on the data size and processing requirements.
			
	Exception handling: Stream operations can throw unchecked exceptions, which can be difficult to handle and debug. 
				It is important to handle exceptions properly and gracefully to avoid unexpected behavior and 
				improve the reliability of the code.


	